**Facilities and Other Resources**

Dr. Xue Han's laboratory and the associated machine-shops to which I have access provide all major equipment necessary to construct the device described in aim \#1. We've been using a 3D printer on the first floor, but there are others on campus and we have purchase from vendors as well. All equipment for surgery and optogenetic stimulation is available, including many lasers and LEDs and optical fiber. We are using carbon fiber and silicon probes which are also available. Tungsten electrodes are also available

Additional resources are available in Boston University's Biomedical Engineering Department's core facilities including a scanning confocal microscope. Animals required for these experiments will be housed in Boston University's Laboratory Animal Care Facility consisting of a 19,000 sq. ft. Barrier Facility, and a 32,000 sq. ft. Non-Barrier facility in which animals are monitored daily and veterinary care is overseen. Finally, Boston University's mechanical engineering machine shop is located just across the street from the Han lab, through which Mark can have various designs fabricated for use in his projects.

Dr. Nancy Kopell is the director of the Cognitive Rhythms Collaborative (CRC), a Boston based group committed to investigating the neurophysiological rhythms of cognition. Through this collaboration Mark has access to substantial intellectual resources including working groups dedicated to brain rhythms, data analysis, and neural coding. The CRC also organizes and sponsors lectures, poster sessions, and conferences featuring numerous scientific experts in rhythmic dynamics and cognition. In addition Dr. Nancy Kopell is the Co-Director of Boston University's Center for Computational Neuroscience and Neural Technology (CompNet). Through CompNet Mark has access to guidance from multiple experts in the areas of computational modeling and data analysis, many of whom reside in the Math department---right across the street from Dr. Xue Han's lab. CompNet frequently invites guests lecturers to present their works in the areas of computational and systems neuroscience as well as organizing poster sessions, workshops, and co-sponsoring an annual conference (Conference on Cognitive and Neural Systems). The CompNet center itself is located 2-3 blocks from Dr. Xue Han's laboratory and the Math department.
