# Sustainable design of cranial window for long-term tissue and optical access

<!-- Author: Susie S. Cha, Mark E. Bucklin, Xue Han -->

<!-- Author affiliation: Boston University, Department of Biomedical Engineering, Boston, MA 02215 -->

<!-- Keywords: in vivo imaging, wide-field microscopy, fluorescence, calcium imaging, neocortex, chronic cranial window, silicone elastomer, tissue access, granulation tissue -->
## Abstract
Wide-field epifluorescence imaging of a living brain has substantially expanded our ability to perform high-throughput detection of neural activity at a spatial and temporal resolution sufficient to capture rich cellular dynamics of a large interconnected network. Yet optical signals are highly sensitive to light scattering, and the preservation of optical clarity of cranial window is critically important for high-resolution imaging, especially so compared to using other imaging modalities. Longitudinal imaging in cortex, however, is usually limited by granulation tissue growth over craniotomy, and its inhomogeneous structures induce a significant level of optical scattering, thus severely compromising the spatial resolution. To address such technical limitation, we report the design of a PDMS-based cranial window system that can faithfully prevent the optically obstructive tissue from growing over craniotomy. Additionally, the two-part system is constructed to assemble reversibly to provide full tissue access upon its initial installation. Utilizing the system, we demonstrate a year-long course of wide-field imaging to record simultaneous activity in thousands of cortical neurons in awake mice. We also validate the feasibility to access and manipulate tissue at any given time, which may be followed with an immediate imaging session.


## Introduction
In vivo imaging provides means to visualize structural and functional dynamics of cellular processes within the native context in a longitudinal manner (Ref). Optical technique for observing neural activity, in particular, has advanced recently owing to both an evolution of digital imaging technology (Ref), and the development of synthetic proteins that act as fluorescent indicators of neural activity (Ref). For example, using a wide-field fluorescence microscope with a scientific-CMOS camera, and the genetically encoded fluorescent calcium sensor GCaMP6f, we recently demonstrated simultaneous recording of activity in hundreds of neurons at high spatial and temporal resolution in awake behaving mice (Ref). While the imaging modality enables us to measure functional dynamics changes in many cells within a larger interconnected network, light scattering can rapidly degrade fluorescence signals, and the high optical clarity of cranial window should essentially remain unchanged to resolve a measure for each cell of the observed signal. Such concerns are particularly relevant in cortical imaging of longitudinal study design due to granulation tissue growth over dura following bone removal with resultant deterioration of optical clarity (Ref).

Generally, glass coverslips are used as cranial windows to seal and protect craniotomy and to provide optical access to the brain (Ref). Glass is optically clear, chemically inert, and provides an easily available method for optical imaging. However, the material is difficult to melt and shape with desired features such that can compensate the volume of the removed bone flap, and thus its installation to the skull leaves space for dura and bone regrowth which disrupts the high optical clarity for chronic imaging (Ref). Notably, ion of a layer of agarose (Ref), silicone (Ref) or glass (Ref) disc fitted within the craniotomy below the glass coverslip which has been proven effective in delaying tissue regrowth and to delay deterioration of optical clarity up to a few months. 

Furthermore, the ability to access and manipulate tissue during real-time imaging can provide novel aspects to characterize the dynamic processes in both physiological and pathological conditions. Several strategies have been reported to gain access across glass cranial windows by incorporating features such as an access port sealed with elastomer (Ref), an infusion cannula (Ref), or a microfluidic channel (Ref). Nonetheless, the approaches limit the tissue accessibility to a single designated site, not uniformly covered over the imaging area, and such approaches has a trade-off between imaging field and tissue accessibility. 

To address the relative restrictions using glass as cranial windows, a number of alternative efforts have highlighted the use of silicone elastomer for designing cranial windows (Ref). For example, polydimethylsiloxane (PDMS) is optically clear, non-toxic and chemically inert and can be readily shaped of desired features with additional functionalities, not necessarily sacrificing the imaging field of the window (Ref). Such favorable properties have led to developing artificial dura with features to prevent tissue regrowth to achieve longitudinal optical clarity for in vivo optical imaging in nonhuman primates (Ref). Additionally, the thin film enables tissue accessibility by penetration in any given area which then retain a tight seal after the extraction of the inserted piece. Yet the efforts for designing windows for rodents using silicone elastomer have thus far been limited, and its potential benefits to developing a system with long-lasting high optical clarity and flexible tissue accessibility remains to be explored. 

In this paper, we demonstrate a PDMS-based cranial window system designed in light of the current technical challenges of cranial windows to enable a leap forward in in vivo optical imaging capabilities in mouse with extended high optical clarity and flexible tissue accessibility. The system was designed in considerations of biocompatibility to facilitate its integration in place of the removed bone flap which enabled us to achieve an unprecedented period of optical clarity, extending beyond a year, for high spatial and temporal resolution imaging using a wide-field microscope. Additionally, the reversible assembly of the two-part system, consist of headplate and window, allowed flexible access to the underlying tissue. The utility of the novel system is demonstrated through chronic optical imaging of calcium dynamics in the cortex and acute interventions to the tissue upon detachment and reinstallation of the window from the headplate. 
Materials and Methods

## Methods
Device development and fabrication: All designs were developed using a Computer Aided Design (CAD) modeling tool (SolidWorks). The designs were then converted into G-code to be machined out using Computer Numerical Control mill. The headplate and the window frame were developed from aluminum plates, and the negative mold of the window was developed from a Teflon plate. The CAD files of the parts used in this paper are shared in XX. 

The PDMS-based windows were fabricated through vacuum casting procedure. Prior to casting, window frames and two glass coverslips, prepared in advance through plasma etching and silanization using Trichlorosilane (Sigma-Aldrich, 448931-10G), were inserted into the mold. The mold was then placed between two custom-made acrylic plates with silicone gaskets in between and was assembled using screws around the edges. The outlet port was connected to the house vacuum line, and the inlet port was connected to uncured PDMS (Fisher Scientific, NC9897184) (1:10 by weight), thoroughly mixed and degassed in advance. The liquid-state polymer was then drawn into the mold filling the volume in between the two coverslips using vacuum. Once filled with the polymer with no apparent air bubble, vacuum was released and positive pressure was applied through the outlet port after plugging the inlet port. With positive pressure contained inside the mold, the polymer was cured at 75ºC for 12 hours. Finally, the windows were released from the mold, and the exteriors were trimmed using scalpels. While handling the window, extra caution was taken to keep the top and the bottom plane of the window isolated from contacts that can cause debris from adhering especially on the bottom imaging plane which cannot be removed after window installation. The completed window was then autoclaved for sterilization. 
 
Surgery for device installation: All procedures were approved by the Institutional Animal Care and Use at Boston University. Stereotaxic surgeries were performed on 6 to 8 weeks old female C57BL/6 mice (Charles River Laboratories). Briefly, dexamethasone (5 ug/g, Patterson Veterinary, 07-808-8194) was administered by intramuscular injection an hour before surgery. The mouse was placed under general anesthesia with isoflurane mixed with oxygen, and meloxicam (2.5 ug/g, Patterson Veterinary; 07-845-6986) and buprenorphine (0.3 ug/g, Patterson Veterinary; 07-891-9756) were administered subcutaneously (SC) as pre-operative care. The incision area was sterilized using 70% alcohol and 7.5% Betadine, then a cut was made along the midline of the brain. The skin was retracted apart laterally using a retractor (WPI, 501968), and 3% H2O2 was applied to remove the periosteum of the skull. Four corners of a square craniotomy over motor cortex with edges of 2.2 mm with the center coordinates of ±1.83 lateral and 1.00 anterior was lightly etched using dental drill with a FG4 carbide. The etched points were marked over with surgical skin marker (FST, 18000-30), then the edges were etched along the four corners using a dental drill (Fig. 2 Step 1(L)). The marking procedure was necessary to enhance the contrast of the etched areas for accurate placement of the headplate under semi-transparent dental cement in the following steps. Utilizing a custom made surgical guide fixed onto the stereotaxic that will hold the headplate horizontal, the headplate was positioned roughly over the centers between the intended craniotomy regions of both hemispheres and anchored directly onto the skull using either opaque or semi-clear C&B Metabond (Parkell). Once the Metabond hardened, the surgical guide was removed and the excess bone cement covering the etched area was drilled away (Fig. 2 Step 1(R)). Once the skull was exposed, it was cleaned with sterile saline (Fisher Scientific, NC9788429). Subsequently, 2.2 x 2.2 mm² craniotomy was performed on one or both sides of the hemisphere along the previously marked area using dental drill with a FG4 carbide (Fig. 2 Step 2(L)). Constant flow of sterile saline and an aspirator was used to flush out any debris. Once the skull within the craniotomy was separated from the surrounding skull, the bone flap was carefully removed using a pair of sharp forceps (FST, 91150-20) and a 45º Micro Points (FST, 10066-15) while keeping the dura intact (Fig. 2 Step 1(R)). Sterile saline was used to further clean up the area, and the exposed brain area was sealed using non-toxic silicone adhesive (WPI, KWIK-SIL). The mouse was then moved for recovery, and proper post-operative care was performed including meloxicam (2.5 ug/g, SC) and buprenorphine (0.3 ug/g, SC) administration. 

Window installation can be performed subsequent to the preceding procedure or deferred to the day of injection as described below (Fig. 2 Step 4). First, sterile 0.5% agarose solution was used to fill the interior of the headplate, immersing the exposed brain, which will essentially occupy any air gap that may remain between the headplate and the window. Then the window was placed directly over the headplate. For proper positioning with its height adjusted, the window was held parallel to the headplate using a custom-made guide and was positioned to form a direct contact between its bottom plane and the brain tissue. Once the position was confirmed, UV-curable dental cement (Pentron Clinic, Flow-It ALC) was applied at least on two points connecting the pieces to quickly fix the window in place on top of the headplate. The guide was then placed away, and excess agarose overflown from the window insertion was aspirated out once it polymerized. Dental cement (Stoelting, 51458) was then applied to cover the rest of the juncture between the headplate and the window. Gaffers tape over a layer of Tegaderm (3M, 70200749201) was used to protect the window. If the procedure was performed on a separate day from that described above, meloxicam (2.5 ug/g, SC) was administered to mitigate any inflammatory response from the installation. 

Window removal and reinstallation: Mouse was placed under general anesthesia with isoflurane mixed with oxygen. The bone cement juncture connecting the window and the headplate was etched away using a dental drill with FG4 carbide. Once the window was detached, abound of sterile saline was flushed to remove dental cement shaves. The window was carefully removed avoiding any capillary ruptures on the granulation tissue surrounding the window. While the new window was installed through the same method described in the previous section, we further utilized the granulation tissue that had grown surrounding the original window as a visual guide for an identical placement of the new window.  

Injection: While the mouse was under general anesthesia, Kwik-Sil plug over craniotomy was carefully removed from the edges to avoide capillary rupture below dura. The exposed brain was flushed with sterile saline before and after each injection. Glass micropipettes with an outer tip diameter between 40 and 80 um (WPI, 504949) was back-filled with mineral oil then installed on the Nanoliter 2010 (WPI, NANOLITER2010). The micropipette was then front-loaded with virus or cells using the Micro4 (WPI). In general, an injection of 230 nL of cells labeled with AAV9.CAG.GCaMP6f.WPRE.SV40 (AV-9-PV3081, Penn Vector Core) at 10^6 cells/uL, or 200 nL of AAV9.Syn.GCaMP6f.WPRE.SV40 (AV-9-PV2822, Penn Vector Core). Injection was performed approximately 500 um deep into the cortex at the rate of 46 nL/min near the center of the imaging field, while avoiding blood vessels to maximize the observable cells around the injection site (Fig. 2 Step 3). The micropipette was let to sit for an additional 2 min at the injection site, and then was withdrawn slowly. 

Wide-field in vivo imaging and microscope setup   The mouse was positioned on an air-supported treadmill ball with its head restrained during imaging sessions (Fig. 2 Step 5). Wide-field epifluorescence imaging was carried out using a custom-built microscope equipped with a scientific CMOS camera (Hamamatsu, ORCA Flash 4.0XX), 470 nm LED (Thorlabs, M470L3), excitation and emission filters of XX and XX, a dichroic mirror (XX), and a 10x objective lens (Mitutoyo, 378-803-3). Image frames were captured with the field-of-view of 1.3 x 1.3 mm2, and the sequence was acquired at 40 frame-per-second over the duration of 5 min or 7 min on each imaging site.

## Results
Design and assembly of the two-part cranial window system   The system was composed of an aluminum headplate and an elastomeric optical window that permitted chronic optical and tissue accessibilities (Fig 1). The headplate was used to stabilize brain motions during imaging sessions which is of major importance to preserve the temporal continuity of individual cells in time-lapse images. The bottom side was shaped in a curvature to increase its surface contact area to the skull to establish a stable fixture against motions induced by animal movement (Fig 1b). Additionally, the headplate provided a platform on which the window was installed at a tunable height to further isolate brain motions from physiological changes while modulating pressure against the cortical tissue.  

The window was casted in PDMS within an aluminum frame surrounding the outer borders that provided resistance to vertical load on the polymer to maintain a flat imaging plane for wide-field imaging (Fig 1b). The frame was also utilized as a juncture for assembly considering the chemical inertness of PDMS to adhesives such as cyanoacrylate and dental cement. The window was shaped in an inverted cone between two parallel planes with a larger rectangular top of 6.2 x 4.0 mm² and a square bottom of 2.0 x 2.0 mm². The design was intended to increase light collection to the imaging plane for improved optical quality. Moreover, in order to compensate the cavity from the removed bone flap, the square bottom extended 450 um which height can further be finely-adjusted during assembly to form a tight seal with the exposed tissue. The negative mold used for window fabrication was designed to be adaptable for a wide-range of dorsal surface of mouse brain with the lateral position of the imaging field adjustable between 0.83 and 4.50 mm from the midline (Supp). In this paper, we limit the demonstration of a window customized to extend between 0.83 and 2.83 mm on both sides of the hemisphere (Fig 1a). For high optical clarity, we employed vacuum casting process for window fabrication to eliminate any defects due to air bubbles trapped within PDMS.

The window system was completed by fixating the window on top of the headplate using dental cement, and the reversible assembly of the two parts yielded a viable method for repeatable tissue access under the cranial window (Fig 1e). The original design concept was to use sticky wax to assemble the two parts which then can be simply reversed using heat, but the method appeared to be unreliable as the wax juncture was not able to maintain an airtight seal within the assembled unit. Alternatively, we used dental cement which requires removal through drilling away the cement juncture, but the detachment of the window from the headplate is simple and does not impose risk of damaging the brain by drilling near the tissue or cracking the window compared to that of a glass coverslip cemented over skull. 

Flexible experimental timeline with repeatable tissue interventions and unrestricted imaging accessibility   The process of reversible assembly allowed flexibility on the time of tissue intervention upon headplate installation. Fig. 2 demonstrates the experimental timeline, referenced to the day of cellular or viral injection, Day 0 (0 d). We performed injection at varying intervals after craniotomy from a day to a week apart. In general, headplate installation and craniotomy was performed two days prior to injection and window installation, as a higher chance of bone regrowth over craniotomy was noted with longer intervals between the two procedures when initially sealed with loose contact to the brain using silicone adhesive. Imaging sessions commenced as early as 4 d and continued as long as the optical clarity lasted to visualize and measure fluorescence dynamics with single-cell resolution. 

The reversible feature was particularly advantageous for unrestricted optical accessibility either before or after an acute tissue intervention. For example, in order to commence imaging without delay from the surgery of headplate installation and craniotomy, it may be desired to perform viral or cellular injection a few days after the initial procedures to minimize inflammatory response or to clear any bleeding resulting from the surgery. Utilizing the two-day procedure, we were able to capture cellular dynamics during the first week of viral transduction in 14 cases out of 18, in despite of the low level of protein expression (Supp). Additionally, the reversible assembly of the system allowed repeatable full-access to the underlying tissue for interventions such as an additional injection. The procedure was performed reliably at both early and later time point of the experiment after the initial window installation. Yet the window must be removed with caution especially to avoid any capillary rupture within granulation tissue surrounding the window (Fig 3b). We performed total of 5 cases of window removal and reinstallation – 2 cases at 1 month, 2 cases at 3 months, and 1 case at 5 months – and were able to achieve clear optical access in 4 cases, besides one case performed at 3 month, to commence imaging following the procedure. 

Divergence of granulation tissue growth and preservation of high optical clarity within craniotomy   Remarkably, we noted self-healing process of granulation tissue growth surrounding the window but not extending into the imaging field (Fig 3). The tissue growth seemingly continued replacing the agarose filling between the window and bone cement coverage over the skull, and an extensive growth of vasculatures within the tissue was visible under the window beyond the imaging field (Fig 3c). Upon window removal, we could observe the granulation tissue extending up to the outer perimeter of the window which has yet been achieved as reported previously using various fillers placed under glass coverslips (Ref) (Fig 3b). The connective tissue made juncture with dura mater which continued alongside the edges of the etched bone then was guided away from the craniotomy (Fig 3a). 

The divergence of tissue growth from the imaging field kept the optical clarity intact over an extended period for optical imaging of mouse cortex. Fig. 4 demonstrates the preservation of high optical quality of both hemispheres sufficient to capture rich subcellular dynamics of transplanted progenitor cells expressing GCaMP6f. This was consistent among experiments, and of 26 mice tested, the windows installed in 18 mice maintained high optical clarity to visualize functional dynamics of individual cells at high spatial and temporal resolution over a month with an average span of X months (Supp). Among the 18 mice, the window in 6 mice preserved its high optical clarity beyond 7 months, including one beyond 11 months and another beyond 14 months.

Longitudinal in vivo imaging of cellular dynamics using a wide-field microscope   Utilizing the prolonged optical clarity of the cranial window system and a wide-field fluorescence microscope, we acquired simultaneous recording of neural dynamics of hundreds to thousands of cortical neurons over the same areas of brain well over 6 months (Fig. 5). The processed image was reconstructed by projecting the maximum from each pixel over time from all frames in the series, thereby depicting the location and spatial distribution of each and every neuron in the microscope’s field-of-view and the overlap of cells in the image plane captured from the camera’s 2-dimensional perspective. Repeated imaging exhibited increased fluorescence signals over the course of the first month, and more cells became readily visualized concurrent to the stabilization of protein expression of GCaMP6f. The single dimensional ‘trace’ time-series were extracted from the observed signal of each cell by reducing the pixel-intensity values of mapped pixels combined. As such, the high-resolution optical clarity of the cranial window sustained long periods of time suitable for identification and segmentation of neural activity in each cell. The tracking of same cells among imaging sessions, however, were non-trivial due to massive fluctuations in signal intensity from individual and spatially overlapping cells. Moreover, the variable imaging depth among sessions further complicated cell identification with difficulty ascribing the depth using the imaging modality. 

## Discussion- 
Numerous adaptations to glass cranial window, that can yield both optical and tissue accessibilities, have expanded our ability to probe dynamic cellular processes within the brain (Ref). While each system has proven feasible to visualize and manipulate cells in vivo, its utility is not necessarily efficient so as to satisfy various experimental conditions. In particular, given the difficulty modifying glass coverslips without compromising the imaging field, much efforts have been confined to adding a single-site access port on an outer edge of craniotomy (Ref). As an alternative approach, we highlighted the use of silicone elastomer to design a cranial window system with optical clarity comparative to glass, yet with an additional benefit to incorporate features with much less design constrains. We further proved the system to be practicable for study design required of sustainable high-resolution optical clarity and unrestricted tissue accessibility. 

The two-part system, designed to facilitate reversible assembly between the window and the headplate, was proven effective for direct tissue access at any given time, including 1 and 5 months upon the initial installation. The strategy permitted accessibility throughout the expand of craniotomy, thereby we could readily target the optimal site of tissue intervention to maximize the coverage within the field-of-view (Ref). A comparable procedure has been applied on glass cranial window for the similar purpose (Ref), yet it is considerably more challenging because of the fragile basis. Such approach, however, may unlikely be necessary by simply penetrating through the elastomeric window for an acute intervention (Ref) which remains to be assessed. Nonetheless, the system was sufficiently promising for capturing the neural responses both preceding and following cellular intervention in reliable manners.

While the advantage of using silicone elastomer relies on its capacity of flexible shapes in design, the efforts in developing cranial window have thus far been limited to fabricating a thin sheet, resembling the classical form of glass cranial window (Ref). In response, we sought to utilize the moldability of PDMS to design a system with improved preservation of optical clarity by incorporating biocompatible features amenable to replacement of bone flap, thus mitigating inflammatory response of the host (Ref). Importantly, the cortical tissue is more likely be complicated by inflammation because of dense vasculatures within bone and dura mater, thereby threatened after granulation tissue growth over craniotomy that can disrupt the optical clarity (Ref). Leading to optimization, we noted the ability to form a face-to-face contact without excessive compressive loads acting on brain tissue was critical at preventing tissue growth over craniotomy. In light of these considerations, the square bottom extension and the adjustable height of the window were proven effective to achieve such optimal condition to maintain longitudinal optical clarity for wide-field imaging extending over a year. In general, the study period was terminated by the natural deterioration of animal health of age rather than by technical limitations such as the degradation of optical clarity. Interestingly, the inflammatory response following bone removal seemed unlikely suppressed, but rather, the resultant granulation tissues were guided away after lining along between the edges of etched bone and the window. As such, the addition of biocompatible features to PDMS-based cranial window system may be sufficient to facilitate integration of window into host system to restore normal function of bone flap, thus preventing inflammation over craniotomy.

Yet despite these advances, future efforts can improve the system to be suitable across a broader range of experiments. First, the current 2.0 x 2.0 mm² window can be expanded to fully cover the dorsal surface of cortex, thereby eliminating the procedures involved in customization for different brain regions. In addition, while the function of reversible assembly has clear advantage of repeatable full-access to tissue at any desired time point, added ability to access through direct penetration across the elastomeric window may permit real-time imaging during tissue intervention. Nevertheless, these technical advancement that allow both in optical and physical accessibilities combined with wide-field epifluorescence imaging may provide an unprecedented lens that may provide insight into mechanistic properties of neural disease, or may lead to a better understanding of neural coding.

## Figure Caption
***
Figure 1 Design, assembly and installation of the polymeric optical window. (a) Schematic of the window system assembled and installed to the animal. Cross section shows the placement of the window as the bottom plane contacts the brain as it extends below the surface of the skull. Side view shows the adjustable height between the window and the headplate to compensate the cavity from skull removal. (b) Top and side view of the polymer window and the headplate. The window frame and the headplate are made of aluminum, and the window is molded in PDMS. Exploded view shows how the two pieces can be assembled. Front side of the headplate includes a feature that avoids hitting the eyes of the animal. (c) Top and (d) side view of the parts. (f) Parts assembled and installed to the animal.

***

Figure 2 Flexible experimental timeline for surgery, injection and imaging. Two-part assembly allows flexible timeline to separate the procedure of headplate installation and craniotomy from injection which helps with optical clarity during the early period imaging. On Day -2 which can extend upto Day -7, headplate installation and craniotomy is performed. Step 1 shows the placement of the headplate above the intended craniotomy region (before) and the fixation to the skull using opaque Metabond (after). After at least 48 hours of recovery period, injection and window installation is performed on Day 0. Step 3 shows injection using a micropipette filled with Evans Blue dye for demonstration only. Step 4 shows window installed above headplate using dental cement. Any cavity between the two pieces are filled with sterile 0.5% agarose. Lastly, imaging session can start from Day 4. Step 5 shows a mouse freely running on a treadmill during a imaging session while its head movement is restrained. The microscope is installed above the animal. Step 6 shows after window removal (before) that allows full tissue access, and a new window installed (after) that allows continuation of imaging over the same region.

***

Figure 3 Extended optical clarity by biocompatible design of the system. (a) The space between the window and the skull filled with agarose is progressively replaced by granulation tissue over time. At 6 month, granulation tissue surrounds the polymer window and vasculature formation is visible resembling a wound healing process. By 1 year, the intermediate space is filled with tissue embedded with vasculatures. The figures are from different animal that represent the corresponding time-point from the initially window installation - the window was installed using opaque Metabond on the samples for Day 0 and 1 year and semi-clear Metabond on the sample for 6 month. (b) Snapshots with the field-of-view of 1.3 x 1.3 mm were taken over the same regions on both hemispheres using the major blood vessels as landmarks (circled same regions). The optical clarity maintains over time to detect cellular dynamics of individual cells. Some GCaMP6f labeled cells are visible. In the left hemisphere, vascular remodelings are notable during the early period.
