### Figures

#### Figure 1 Design, assembly and installation of the polymeric optical window.

\(a) Schematic of the window system assembled and installed to the animal. Cross section shows the placement of the window as the bottom plane contacts the brain as it extends below the surface of the skull. Side view shows the adjustable height between the window and the headplate to compensate the cavity from skull removal. (b) Top and side view of the polymer window and the headplate. The window frame and the headplate are made of aluminum, and the window is molded in PDMS. Exploded view shows how the two pieces can be assembled. Front side of the headplate includes a feature that avoids hitting the eyes of the animal. (c) Top and (d) side view of the parts. (f) Parts assembled and installed to the animal.

#### Figure 2 Flexible experimental timeline for surgery, injection and imaging.

Two-part assembly allows flexible timeline to separate the procedure of headplate installation and craniotomy from injection which helps with optical clarity during the early period imaging. On Day -2 which can extend upto Day -7, headplate installation and craniotomy is performed. Step 1 shows the placement of the headplate above the intended craniotomy region (before) and the fixation to the skull using opaque Metabond (after). After at least 48 hours of recovery period, injection and window installation is performed on Day 0. Step 3 shows injection using a micropipette filled with Evans Blue dye for demonstration only. Step 4 shows window installed above headplate using dental cement. Any cavity between the two pieces are filled with sterile 0.5% agarose. Lastly, imaging session can start from Day 4. Step 5 shows a mouse freely running on a treadmill during a imaging session while its head movement is restrained. The microscope is installed above the animal. Step 6 shows after window removal (before) that allows full tissue access, and a new window installed (after) that allows continuation of imaging over the same region.

#### Figure 3 Extended optical clarity by biocompatible design of the system.

\(a) The space between the window and the skull filled with agarose is progressively replaced by granulation tissue over time. At 6 month, granulation tissue surrounds the polymer window and vasculature formation is visible resembling a wound healing process. By 1 year, the intermediate space is filled with tissue embedded with vasculatures. The figures are from different animal that represent the corresponding time-point from the initially window installation - the window was installed using opaque Metabond on the samples for Day 0 and 1 year and semi-clear Metabond on the sample for 6 month. (b) Snapshots with the field-of-view of 1.3 x 1.3 mm were taken over the same regions on both hemispheres using the major blood vessels as landmarks (circled same regions). The optical clarity maintains over time to detect cellular dynamics of individual cells. Some GCaMP6f labeled cells are visible. In the left hemisphere, vascular remodelings are notable during the early period.
