# Microscopy 1

This section describes the background in microscopy in the neurosciences, and also how it relates to imaging in
healthcare and electrophysiology in neuroscience. It will also describe the basic elements necessary for the
construction of a microscope in a laboratory where calcium imaging in an animal is available. It will also refer to
later sections which cover the design and construction of mechanical elements for animal handling and optical access
(i.e. the headplate and a chronic optical window).

<!-- from the frontiers paper -->

Optical imaging has traditionally involved wide-field imaging or two photon imaging, each with their own distinctive
advantages and disadvantages 

In recent years, two photon microscopy has been a preeminent choice for imaging in tissue, because of its high spatial
resolution, and tissue penetrating features 

Two photon calcium imaging has been broadly applied to individual cells or subcellular components of neurons including
spines and axons 

Because two photon microscopy uses a scanning mechanism, the signal to noise ratio is influenced by the time spent
imaging each point, and the spatial resolution is determined by the number of points scanned to obtain each image. As a
result, the size of the imaging field is inversely correlated with the overall temporal resolution while maintaining a
relatively high signal-to-noise ratio, thus, two photon calcium imaging is often performed on a small area or on a
sparse network of cells, when dynamic responses with high temporal fidelity is necessary.

Wide-field, or single photon imaging has been in use for several decades and was first used to characterize the
functional architecture and hemodynamic responses in brain tissue 

However, this technique has seen a renaissance recently due to its simple instrumentation, relatively inexpensive cost,
and the improvements in neural signal indicators. Optical imaging and two photon microscopy have traditionally been
performed in head-fixed preparations, but recent advances have also made it possible to perform wide-field calcium
imaging in freely moving animals, through miniaturized and wearable microendoscope systems 

While wide-field imaging lacks the spatial resolution to resolve fine subcellular structure or the penetrating
properties available with two-photon, it is possible to obtain clear neurites and somatic features, including spike
detection 



Because a single photon microscope does not rely on scanning features, it can be used to sample a larger field of view
without sacrificing sampling rates. Additionally, recording sessions may be less sensitive to fluorophore bleaching than
other techniques, which makes it possible to perform sustained illumination and subsequent imaging for an extended
period of time - a desired feature for analyzing neural networks during some behavior paradigms (*e.g.,* repeated trial
learning paradigms). Thus, wide-field imaging offers an advantage if the objective is to simultaneously recording
hundreds of neurons in the brain of a living and behaving animal with high temporal fidelity.

<!-- from the frontiers paper -->

### Filters

### Lenses

### Mechanics

### Microscopy and Functional Imaging Two core innovations in available
- technology 1. Synthetic bio (i.e. GCaMP) 2. Cameras 
- scientific CMOS



***

