# Specific Aims:

Deep brain stimulation (DBS) has revolutionized the treatment of neurological and psychiatric diseases over the past couple decades. A DBS device is essentially a cardiac pacemaker reconfigured to stimulate a small region of brain near the tip of an electrode with high-frequency pulses of electrical current; despite this simplicity, DBS has been used widely for treating movement disorders, such as Parkinson’s disease (PD) and dystonia. The impressive performance of DBS on alleviating movement deficits associated with PD and dystonia has motivated a number of ongoing clinical trials on assessing its use in treating other brain disorders, such as obsessive compulsive disorder and depression. However, benefits of DBS treatment are unpredictable and show varying degrees and patterns of symptom suppression across patients. Unfortunately, this technology in its current iteration has been unable to overcome these limitations. This is likely due in part to a need for neural implant devices that are capable of more numerous and specific stimulation contact areas. Additionally, the DBS mechanism of action remains unknown and this further limits its ability to become wholly sufficient treatment. The central goal of this project is to develop a novel adaptive neuromodulation platform with increased neural contacts and their specificity as well as to examine the therapeutic mechanisms of DBS. I hypothesize that aberrant neural network dynamics underlie the behavioral symptoms of brain disorders, and DBS therapeutic effect is through scrambling pathological neural network patterns. While I will primarily focus on PD here, the principles discovered through this study should be easily generalized to design novel therapies for other neurological and psychiatric disorders.

***Aim 1: To design a novel adaptive neuromodulation platform for closed loop control of neural activities.*** Functional neural systems underlying brain disorders are likely complex, impacting interconnected brain areas. To reliably distinguish normal and pathologic neural network states, such as the “on/off” states in PD, it will be advantageous to simultaneously measure neural activities in multiple relevant brain areas. The platform proposed here consists of a bidirectional neural interface with penetrating silicon electrodes capable of simultaneously recording from multiple sites interspersed with LED-coupled optical-fibers for multi-point optogenetic neuromodulation. I will use the commercially available multicontact silicon electrodes, known as Michigan probes, that are 5um thick and capable of recording up to hundreds of locations simultaneously. To perform neuromodulation with high spatiotemporal precision, I will use optogenetic methods to activate or silence specific neurons expressing rhodopsins in mice using certain colors of light. Even though this system is designed for mice in this study, the principles demonstrated here have a clear translational path to humans.

***Aim 2: To implement a library of closed loop modulation protocols with machine-learning algorithms.*** To efficiently determine the neural network states responsible for a specific disease condition, I will use machine-learning algorithms to implement a library of optimized strategies. Specifically, this system consists of two parts: The first is a closed-loop control system responsible for gathering and analyzing streams of neural and behavioral data in real-time to estimate a neurobehavioral state, and then applying a state-specific optogenetic control with patterned light into the brain. The second component is a slower and more complex routine that records and analyzes the streams of neural and behavioral data, and assesses the performance of state-estimates and controls applied by the real-time component. State-response strategy updates will be periodically fed from the thoughtful controller (2^nd^ component) to the real-time decision maker (1^st^ component) using variations of traditional machine-learning algorithms to generate successively optimized strategies.

***Aim 3: To systematically evaluate the neural circuit mechanisms underlying DBS therapeutic effect on PD.*** Even though the precise therapeutic mechanism of DBS is unclear, DBS has revealed tremendous information about the brain’s functionings and dysfunctionings. For example, pathological beta oscillations, oscillations around 20Hz, have been widely observed in the cortical-basal gangion circuits in PD patients implanted with DBS electrodes. As the causal role of beta oscillations is yet to be established, it is likely that the neural network states identified in Aim 2 would conform and converge into distinct archetypes, such as beta oscillations within the cortical-basal gangion circuits relevant to PD. I hypothesize that neuromodulation outside of the classical PD neural circuit would be therapeutic, in so far as such neuromodulation is capable of scrambling pathological network dynamics. Once proven correct, the proposed therapeutic mechanisms of DBS through altering neural network pathological representationswould provide a basis for a new generation of neural circuit based neuromodulation therapies.

***Significance:*** This proposal focuses on developing a novel closed-loop neuromodulation system using optogenetics and an intelligent control algorithm. This approach enables automation of a search for individual-optimized stimulation patterns, and adaptation of these patterns over time in response to fluctuating symptoms.
