# SiliSkull
- [SiliSkull](#siliskull)
    - [Introduction](#introduction)
    - [Methods](#methods)
    - [Results](#results)
    - [Discussion](#discussion)

## Introduction
Optical in vivo imaging offers longitudinal and non-invasive assessment methods to observe the structural details and activity dynamics of cells labeled with static and functional fluorescent probes, respectively. As the complex functionalities of the brain such as perception and emotion is rooted in the countless physical and electrical connections among cells, the assessment method has been rapidly adopted in the field of neuroscience to decipher the organ through visualising the structural and functional connections of cells inside a living brain. Conventionally, in order to gain optical access to the brain, a glass coverslip is installed over craniotomy to seal and protect the exposed tissue while replacing the skull with a transparent material that provides optical access to the brain. Glass is chemically inert, optically clear and commercially available, and the material may provide a simple method to pursue high-resolution optical imaging, but the method is not optimal for maintaining long-term clarity and for accessing the tissue for any intervention after the initial window installation. 

While one of the unique features of the technique is repeated optical access over an extended period, the duration is eventually limited due to tissue regrowth over the imaging field and subsequent deterioration of the optical clarity. To block tissue regrowth, plug features made of agarose, silicone or glass were used to fill the cavity between the coverslip and the brain but only to the extent to delay the deterioration. Another drawback of the system comes with limited tissue access as the coverslip is permanently installed to the skull using dental cement, and the rigid barrier prevents any intervention such as drug application or electrophysiological recording on the brain. Modified coverslip with an addition of a hole sealed with elastomer or an infusion cannula may provide a port for tissue access, but the approach limits the accessibility to a single designated site not uniformly covered over the imaging area. Furthermore, it is difficult to modify glass coverslips to implement functionalities as such without compromising the optical accessibility. While in vivo optical imaging of the brain have substantially expanded our ability to assess a living brain at the resolution from a network of cells to subcellular units that was inaccessible previously, an improved window that can sustain long-term optical clarity without the maintenance of tissue removal and with flexible tissue access may better adapt to deciphering the complexity of the brain without the technical limitations of the current cranial window system.

Alternatively, chemically inert and optically clear polymer can substitute the use of glass coverslips for developing a cranial window. For similar considerations, polydimethylsiloxane (PDMS) has been extensively adopted in developing biomimetic systems with intricate structures on which cells can adhere, form functional tissue and be monitored through the optically clear material. The polymer has the flexibility to be molded with any desired features that is impossible with glass, and the property can be utilized to implement functionalities to the cranial window without compromising the optical accessibility. In fact, the same material was used to develop an artificial dural membrane for optical imaging in non-primates to replace the removed dura with an optically clear interface while preventing bone regrowth within the imaging field by molding a thin sheet of membrane with walls surrounding the edges that meet with the bone. In addition, the membrane can be utilized to access the tissue by penetrating through the thin polymer sheet which self-seals after the extraction of the inserted piece. Similar design using a thin sheet of elastomer to replace glass coverslip have been implemented in rodents, but the material property of PDMS that is inert to cyanoacrylate or dental cement was not considered in the design, and the sheet cannot be reliably installed through the identical procedure that of a glass coverslip. Accordingly, the use of polymer to develop cranial window in rodents has yet to introduce much advantage over glass coverslips. Furthermore, the moldability of the polymer should also be utilized for improving the design with biocompatible features for stable and long-term optical and flexible tissue access. 

Here, we introduce the use of PDMS to develop a cranial window for in vivo optical imaging of a mouse brain that provides high-resolution optical clarity without deterioration and flexible tissue access through a two-part assembly system. The cranial window was molded to compensate for the removed skull and to minimize interruption to the host system, and the biocompatible features were essential to facilitate integration to the host and to prevent any tissue regrowth over the imaging field. Additionally, we demonstrate the use of a simple procedure of window removal for injection followed by an immediate optical access after the reinstallation of a window. Accordingly, the use of polymer offers flexibility to implement functions with relative ease, and the additional features that were applied in the system strikingly improved the longevity of optical clarity that hasn’t been attainable using the conventional methods. 

---

## Methods
**Device development and fabrication**   All designs were developed using a Computer Aided Design (CAD) modeling tool. The designs were then converted into G-code to be machined out using Computer Numerical Control mill. The headplate and the window frame were made of aluminum, and the window mold was made of Teflon. The CAD files of the parts used in this paper are shared in XX. 

The polymer-based optical windows were fabricated through vacuum casting procedure. Prior to casting, window frames and two glass coverslips, prepared in advance through plasma etching and silanization using Trichlorosilane (Sigma-Aldrich, 448931-10G), were inserted into the mold. The mold was then placed between two custom-made acrylic plates with silicone gaskets in between and was assembled using screws around the edges. The outlet port was connected to the house vacuum line, and the inlet port was connected to uncured PDMS (Fisher Scientific, NC9897184) (1:10 by weight), thoroughly mixed and degassed in advance. The liquid-state polymer was then drawn into the mold filling the volume in between the two coverslips using vacuum. Once filled with the polymer with no apparent air bubble, vacuum was released and positive pressure was applied through the outlet port after plugging the inlet port. With positive pressure contained inside the mold, the polymer was cured at 75ºC for 12 hours. Finally, the windows were released from the mold, and the exteriors were trimmed using scalpels. While handling the imaging chamber, extra caution was taken to keep the top and the bottom plane of the window isolated from contacts that can cause debris from adhering especially on the bottom imaging plane which cannot be removed after window installation. The completed window was then autoclaved for sterilization. 
 
**Surgery and window installation**   All procedures were performed according to the protocol approved by the Institutional Animal Care and Use at Boston University. Surgeries were performed on 6 to 8 weeks old female C57BL/6 mice. One hour prior to the procedure, dexamethasone (5 ug/g, Patterson Veterinary, 07-808-8194) was administered by intramuscular injection to relieve any tissue inflammatory response and to prevent cerebral edema. The mouse was placed under general anesthesia with 1 - 1.5% isoflurane mixed with oxygen. As pre-operative care, meloxicam (2.5 ug/g, Patterson Veterinary; 07-845-6986) and buprenorphine (0.3 ug/g, Patterson Veterinary; 07-891-9756) were administered subcutaneously (SC) to reduce pain and inflammatory responses. The mouse was then immobilized on a stereotaxic instrument. The incision area was sterilized using 70% alcohol and Betadine 7.5%, then a cut was made along the midline of the brain. The skin was retracted apart laterally using a retractor (WPI, 501968), and 3% H₂O₂ was applied to remove the periosteum of the skull. Four corners of a square craniotomy over motor cortex with edges of 2.2 mm with the center coordinates of ±1.83 lateral and 1.00 anterior was lightly etched using dental drill with a FG4 carbide. The etched points were marked over with surgical skin marker (FST, 18000-30), then the edges were etched along the four corners using a dental drill. The marking procedure was necessary to enhance the contrast of the etched areas for accurate placement of the headplate under semi-transparent dental cement in the following steps. Utilizing a custom made surgical guide fixed onto the stereotaxic that will hold the headplate horizontal, the headplate was positioned roughly over the centers between the intended craniotomy regions of both hemispheres and anchored directly onto the skull using either opaque or semi-clear C&B Metabond (Parkell). Once the Metabond hardened, the surgical guide was removed and the excess bone cement covering the etched area was drilled away. Once the skull was exposed, it was cleaned of any debris by irrigating with sterile saline (Fisher Scientific, NC9788429). Subsequently, 2.2 x 2.2 mm² craniotomy was performed on one or both sides of the hemisphere along the previously marked area using dental drill with a FG4 carbide. Constant flow of sterile saline and and aspirator was used to cool down the brain and to flush out any debris. Once the skull within the craniotomy was separated from the surrounding skull, the bone flap was carefully removed using a pair of sharp forceps (FST, 91150-20) and a 45º Micro Points (FST, 10066-15) while keeping the dura intact avoiding any damage. Sterile saline was used to further clean up the area, and the exposed brain area was sealed using non-toxic silicone adhesive (WPI, KWIK-SIL). The mouse was then moved for recovery, and for post-operative care, meloxicam (2.5 ug/g, SC) and buprenorphine (0.3 ug/g, SC) were administered over every 12 hours over 48 hours to reduce inflammation and pain. 

For window installation, sterile 0.5% agarose filled inside the headplate over the exposed brain tissue, and the polymer-based window was placed directly on top of dural membrane over craniotomy. Using a custom made guide, the window was held parallel to the headplate, and the position of the window was adjusted to compensate for cavity due to removed skull. Once the position was confirmed, UV-curable dental cement (Pentron Clinic, Flow-It ALC) was applied at least on two points connecting the pieces to quickly fix the window in place on top of the headplate. The guide was moved out of the way, and excess agarose overflown from the window insertion was aspirated out after it polymerized. Dental cement (Stoelting, 51458) was then applied using P200 to fill the rest of the juncture between the headplate and the window ensuring air tight seal between the two parts. Gaffers tape on top of Tegaderm (3M, 70200749201) was used to protect the polymer window. Meloxicam (2.5 ug/g, SC) was given every 24 hours over the following 72 hours to reduce any inflammation due to the installation. 

**Injection**   Unless injection was performed immediately after headplate installation, Kwik-Sil plug over craniotomy was carefully removed from the edges avoiding capillary rupture below dura by the negative pressure created by the seal. The exposed brain was flushed with sterile saline before and after each injection. Glass micropipettes with an outer tip diameter between 40 and 80 um (WPI, 504949) was back-filled with mineral oil then installed on the Nanoliter 2010 (WPI, NANOLITER2010). The micropipette was then front-loaded with virus or cells by controlling using the Micro4 (WPI). In general, an injection of 230 nL of cells labeled with AAV9.CAG.GCaMP6f.WPRE.SV40 (AV-9-PV3081, Penn Vector Core) at 10^6 cells/uL or 200 nL of AAV9.Syn.GCaMP6f.WPRE.SV40 (AV-9-PV2822, Penn Vector Core) was performed approximately 500 um into the cortex at the rate of 46 nL/min on each hemisphere preferably near the center of the imaging field and avoiding blood vessels to maximize the observable cells from the injection site. The micropipette was let to sit an additional 2 min at the injection site to prevent any overflow then was withdrawn slowly. The polymeric window was then installed parallel to the headplate ensuring complete seal between the two pieces as previously described in detail. 

**Window removal and reinstallation**   Prior to the procedure, the mouse was placed under general anesthesia with 1 - 1.5% isoflurane mixed with oxygen. The bone cement juncture connecting the window frame and the headplate was etched away using a dental drill with FG4 carbide. Once the window detached, abound of sterile saline was flushed to remove dental cement shaves which can adhere to dural membrane. The detached window was carefully removed avoiding any capillary ruptures on the granular tissue surrounding the window. A new window was installed through the same method described above but with the addition of a visual guide of the granular tissue for identical placement of the original window.  

**Wide-field in vivo imaging and microscope setup**   The mouse was fully awake and freely moving on an air-supported treadmill ball with its head movement restrained during imaging sessions. Wide-field epifluorescence imaging was carried out using a custom-built microscope equipped with a scientific CMOS camera (Hamamatsu, ORCA Flash 4.0XX), 470 nm LED (Thorlabs, M470L3), excitation and emission filters of XX and XX, a dichroic mirror (XX), and a 10x objective lens (Mitutoyo, 378-803-3). Image frames were captured with the field-of-view of 1.343x1.343 mm2 (correct this), and the sequence was acquired at 40 frame-per-second over the duration of 5 min or 7 min on each imaging site.

---

## Results
**Design of the polymeric optical window**   The optical imaging system was composed of two parts, a headplate and a polymer-based optical window, that were arranged to assemble reversibly. The bottom side of the headplate was formed in curvature to increase the surface contact and to strengthen the adhesion to the skull which plays an important role in fixating head motions during imaging sessions. The polymer window was casted in PDMS, an optically clear with low auto-fluorescent silicone elastomer, and was designed to be placed above the headplate while the bottom plane makes direct contact with the dural membrane. Window mold was designed to cast an inverted cone-shaped optical window between two parallel planes with a rectangular top of 6.15 x 4.00 mm² and a square bottom of 2.0 x 2.0 mm². The larger top increased the light collection on the imaging plane for improved optical quality. Below the square bottom, a plug extended 450 um to compensate for the cavity from skull removal which height can further be adjusted during installation. The mold was designed to be adaptable for dorsal surface of the brain on both hemispheres as the lateral position of the bottom plane can be adjusted between 0.83 and 4.50 mm from the midline. The polymer window used in the reported study was customized for motor cortex extending between the lateral position of 0.83 and 2.83 mm on both sides.

**Experimental timeline**    The experimental timeline was referenced to the day of injection, Day 0. The two-part assembly design provided flexibility on the time of injection preferably days after craniotomy at which point the inflammatory response resulting from the surgical procedures subsides, and the brain clears from any bleeding that would otherwise obstruct the optical clarity during the early imaging period. Trials of variable intervals between surgery and injection from a day to a week apart proved the flexible experimental timeline. In general, we advanced with surgical procedures including headplate installation and craniotomy performed two days prior, Day -2, as there is a higher chance of bone regrowth over craniotomy with longer expansion between the two procedures. Subsequently, viral or cell injection procedure was conducted followed by the window installation on Day 0. Finally, imaging sessions commenced as early as Day 4 until the optical clarity lasted, in some cases extending over Day 350. In addition, the reversible assembly of the two parts composing the imaging system allowed repeatable full-access to the underlying tissue for interventions such as an additional injection at any time point of the experiment. 

Biocompatible design of the window facilitates integration with the host system   The extended period of high-resolution optical clarity was achieved as the window was recognized as part of the host system as we observed granular tissue with blood vessels forming around the perimeter of the interface between the extrusion plug and the brain. This tissue growth did not extend over the imaging field and rather kept it intact over an extended period. This was consistent among experiments with overall success rate of surgery of 69% (18/26) determined by the optical quality lasting at least a month. The tissue growth seemingly continued replacing the agarose filling between the cone-shaped window and the skull which expanded over time. 

Early- and later-period imaging achieved over same regions on both hemispheres   Despite the low level of protein expression during the early period of viral transduction, we were able to record the calcium dynamics of cells within the first week of transplantation in 78% (14/18) of the experiments. We were also able to continue imaging over the same regions for over 6 month in 39% (7/18) of the experiment including one mouse that is being collected for a year. The blood vessels were utilized as landmarks for capturing over same region as the major vessels did not vastly alter. Captured through wide-field epifluorescence imaging, individual cells were distinguishable from another throughout the imaging period on both hemispheres across hundreds of cells detectable (not shown) in each session. 

---

## Discussion
Here, we demonstrate the utility of silicone elastomer to develop a cranial window that provides high-resolution optical clarity comparable to glass but with additional features to promote biocompatibility which led to long-term optical clarity and easy access to the brain. The system provides reliable method for both early and later period of in vivo imaging and extends the utility of the technique with unrestrained optical accessibility. Additionally, the two-part assembly system provides option to access tissue for interventions such as injection at any time point of the experiment by detaching the window from the headplate anchored to the skull.

On account of its optical clarity, non-toxicity and chemical inertness, PDMS is an apparent candidate to substitute glass for cranial window and has previously been molded into a thin sheet to form a clear interface to seal the brain for imaging. We further explored the utility of the moldability of the polymer and designed a cranial window in an inverted cone-shape with an extrusion on the bottom end which features are intended for increased light collection for improved optical quality and for compensating the cavity due to skull removal. Similarly, plug features were previously used to fill the cavity from skull removal, but our system is first to report that the feature can prevent tissue regrowth over craniotomy which extended the imaging period upto a year. In addition to the plug, we believe the adjustable height and pressure to the brain also played an important role to reduce inflammatory response. Remarkably, we observed self-healing process with granular tissue with blood vessels filling the surroundings of the plug. Seemingly, the window was integrating as part of the host system as the tissue growth extended upto the polymer wall but did not continue over the imaging field. The results demonstrate that the polymer-based optical window can provide high-resolution optical clarity comparative to glass, and the features included in the window can overcome the barrier of tissue regrowth over imaging field which is the the primary factor that obstructs long-term optical clarity in the existing systems.   

The window was also designed for easy access to the underlying brain through a simple procedure of a reversible assembly that provides accessibility to the entire imaging region without compromising the imaging quality. The original design concept was to use sticky wax to assemble the two pieces which can be simply reversed using heat, but the method appeared to be unreliable as the wax juncture cannot maintain an airtight seal inside the assembled unit. Alternatively, we used dental cement which requires removal through drilling away the cement juncture, but the detachment of the window from the headplate is simple and does not impose risk on damaging the brain by drilling near the tissue or cracking the window compared to that of a glass coverslip cemented over skull. This procedure can be performed reliably at any time of the experiment including 1 and 5 month after the initial installation, and the granular tissue surrounding the plug guides the placement of the new window over the same region. Imaging can commence immediately after the reinstallation of the window, but we noticed that this approach may not be ideal in case of monitoring the functional activity of the brain as it may be initially affected by the associated procedure of removal and reinstallation. 

While there are numerous adaptations of cranial window derived from the original glass coverslip, there are yet to be a consensus on a system with functionalities that can be adopted to various experimental set-ups particularly due to the difficulty of modifying a coverslip without compromising the optical accessibility. Instead of limiting to glass to develop a cranial window, we expanded to using polymer with properties optimal for in vivo optical imaging since it has less design constraints. Nevertheless, the cranial window was designed to image a restraint area at a time of 8 mm2 of the dorsal surface of a mouse brain, and the system was not built to be adaptable to multiple regions of the brain due to the fixed lateral position of the window depending on the custom-built mold. We made two molds that cover the lateral position between 0.83 mm and 2.83 mm and between 2.00 and 4.00 mm for imaging motor and somatosensory cortex depending on the coronal position and visual cortex (not shown in result), respectively. For future development, a mold that encompasses the entire dorsal surface can simplify the procedure of developing a mold for different brain regions which will broaden the usability of the system for a range of experiments. 

In this paper, we validate the use of PDMS to develop a cranial window with improved longevity of optical clarity and flexible tissue access compared to conventional methods using glass. This technique improves the capacity of in vivo optical imaging by eliminating the physical barrier of tissue regrowth that would limit the imaging duration. The improvement may facilitate experiments which would have been difficult to execute previously such as observing the before and after effect of disease onset and its progression over an extended period as the device is not limited by tissue access or imaging period. Furthermore with the availability of in vivo optical imaging combined with various fluorescent probes, we are better adapted to probe the complexity of the brain especially by dissecting the neural networks through labeling cells in multiple spectrums and with specificity through genetic targeting. 

---


**Figure 1** Design, assembly and installation of the polymeric optical window. (a) Schematic of the window system assembled and installed to the animal. Cross section shows the placement of the window as the bottom plane contacts the brain as it extends below the surface of the skull. Side view shows the adjustable height between the window and the headplate to compensate the cavity from skull removal. (b) Top and side view of the polymer window and the headplate. The window frame and the headplate are made of aluminum, and the window is molded in PDMS. Exploded view shows how the two pieces can be assembled. Front side of the headplate includes a feature that avoids hitting the eyes of the animal. (c) Top and (d) side view of the parts. (f) Parts assembled and installed to the animal.


**Figure 2** Flexible experimental timeline for surgery, injection and imaging. Two-part assembly allows flexible timeline to separate the procedure of headplate installation and craniotomy from injection which helps with optical clarity during the early period imaging. On Day -2 which can extend upto Day -7, headplate installation and craniotomy is performed. Step 1 shows the placement of the headplate above the intended craniotomy region (before) and the fixation to the skull using opaque Metabond (after). After at least 48 hours of recovery period, injection and window installation is performed on Day 0. Step 3 shows injection using a micropipette filled with Evans Blue dye for demonstration only. Step 4 shows window installed above headplate using dental cement. Any cavity between the two pieces are filled with sterile 0.5% agarose. Lastly, imaging session can start from Day 4. Step 5 shows a mouse freely running on a treadmill during a imaging session while its head movement is restrained. The microscope is installed above the animal. Step 6 shows after window removal (before) that allows full tissue access, and a new window installed (after) that allows continuation of imaging over the same region.


**Figure 3** Extended optical clarity by biocompatible design of the system. (a) The space between the window and the skull filled with agarose is progressively replaced by granular tissue over time. At 6 month, granular tissue surrounds the polymer window and vasculature formation is visible resembling a wound healing process. By 1 year, the intermediate space is filled with tissue embedded with vasculatures. The figures are from different animal that represent the corresponding time-point from the initially window installation - the window was installed using opaque Metabond on the samples for Day 0 and 1 year and semi-clear Metabond on the sample for 6 month. (b) Snapshots with the field-of-view of 1.3 x 1.3 mm were taken over the same regions on both hemispheres using the major blood vessels as landmarks (circled same regions). The optical clarity maintains over time to detect cellular dynamics of individual cells. Some GCaMP6f labeled cells are visible. In the left hemisphere, vascular remodelings are notable during the early period.


________________


This design feature is similar to that of the thin wall surrounding the artificial dura used in non-primate optical imaging that functions to block bone growth over the craniotomy. While the artificial dual membrane cannot block dural regrowth and need extensive maintenance to remove the regrown membrane to maintain the optical clarity, the polymer window was able to do just that.


The ability to have full access to the tissue provides the flexible injection site within any region of the exposed brain, ideally near the center of the imaging field, in order to cover the entire region exposed to injection.


The system was developed with biocompatible features without compromising the high-resolution optical clarity,