# Introduction

In vivo optical imaging provides a means to visualize the structural
features and functional dynamics of brain tissue, and to measure how
these change over time^1--3^. Optical techniques for observing neural
activity have advanced due to evolving digital imaging technology, and
the development of increasingly effective functional indicators such as
the genetically encoded fluorescent calcium sensor GCaMP6f^4^.

The ability to observe and record from the same brain region for
extended periods is critical for longitudinal experiments tracking long
term changes^5--8^. This ability relies heavily on maintaining a clear
optical light path by forming a stable non-scattering interface with
neural tissue overlying the targeted brain region. Using a wide-field
fluorescence microscope with a scientific-CMOS camera, we can record
activity in hundreds of distinct neurons in the hippocampus and other
subcortical brain regions of awake behaving mice^9^. The method used to
create an optical window in subsurface regions allows the quality of
optical access to remain stable for several months. The approach is not
without drawbacks, however; stable optical access is delayed by pooling
and coagulation of blood on the window surface resulting from
unavoidable vascular damage inherent to the implantation procedure^5^.
The period of delay post implantation can range from 3-8 weeks before
tissue repair and phagocytic debris removal processes subside to yield
optical access to targeted brain tissue with stable imaging quality.

Attempts to image neocortical regions on the surface of mouse brain
typically use a small glass disc fixed to the cranial surface to seal
and protect the craniotomy, and to provide optical access to the
brain^10,11^. This approach, however, is often challenged by progressive
deterioration in image quality. Consequently, the reliability and
average duration of optical access has been insufficient for long-term
studies. The degradation is observed as a cloudy layer that gradually
covers the imaging field, and is thought to arise from the natural
inflammatory response that follows a craniotomy^10--15^. As granulation
tissue grows, its inhomogeneous structure scatters light at the
interface between brain tissue and optical window, which consequently
degrades image quality and blurs fluorescence signals. Image quality in
wide-field microscopy is more sensitive to scattering along the light
path than scanning microscopes like two-photon or confocal, and is
therefore particularly susceptible to this degradation^1,16^.

While glass is c­­hemically inert and comes in many shapes and sizes,
cementing glass to the top of the skull leaves a fluid filled gap
between the window and brain surface which is quickly filled by
granulation tissue. This process, thought to be a mechanism for dura and
bone regrowth, eventually disrupts the high optical clarity for chronic
imaging^12^, and hence is a common target for efforts to extend image
quality through a cranial window^7,12^.

Efforts to overcome this problem by adding purely mechanical features to
the cranial window have involved attaching spacers made of
agarose^11,17^, silicone^18,19^ and glass^7^ to the window's
brain-facing surface that compensate for the thickness of removed bone.
These approaches report delaying tissue regrowth for up to a few months
before optical quality deteriorates. These modest results indicate a
valid basis underlying this approach and suggest that extending this
strategy by starting with a design and material not limited by the fixed
form of flat glass optical windows could yield some improvement.
Additional elements of a chronic cranial imaging window intended to
mitigate degradation by granulation tissue typically target the primary
source stimulating the process, inflammation. These include the aseptic
design of seals and features, selective use of biocompatible materials,
and perioperative administration of anti-inflammatory and antibiotic
drugs^7,20,21^.

While these designs have improved longevity, they remain limited in
terms of long-term access to the cortical tissue. The ability to access
and manipulate tissue during real-time imaging facilitates novel ability
to characterize the dynamic processes in both physiological and
pathological conditions^22^. Several strategies have been reported to
gain access to regions below glass cranial windows by incorporating
features such as an access port sealed with elastomer^23^, infusion
cannula^24^, or the use of microfluidic channels^17^. Nonetheless, the
approaches limit the tissue accessibility to a single designated site
predetermined before an experiment begins and do not offer uniform
access over the imaging area.

To address the relative restrictions using glass as cranial windows, a
number of alternative efforts have highlighted the use of silicone
elastomer for cranial windows^25--29^. For example, polydimethylsiloxane
(PDMS) is optically clear, non-toxic and chemically inert and can be
molded to take any shape or exhibit any desired feature, not necessarily
sacrificing the imaging field of the window. These properties combine to
offer a remarkably versatile material, particularly favorable for
prototype development for projects with demanding specifications for
biocompatibility and optical performance. A well-known and widely used
example is the artificial dura for in vivo optical imaging in nonhuman
primates^25,26,30^. This chronic implant device is placed in and covers
a craniotomy and sits protected within a chronic cranial recording
chamber. It mitigates tissue regrowth, and interfaces with a cylindrical
insert -- also made of PDMS -- for optical imaging of neocortex.
Additionally, the artificial dura is thin enough to enable access to
underlying tissue for penetrating electrodes, which penetrate easily and
leave a tight seal after withdrawal. Yet the efforts for translating
this design windows for small research animals using silicone elastomer
have thus far been limited. And a system with long-lasting high optical
clarity and flexible tissue accessibility remains to be developed or
explored for rodent models.

In this paper, we describe a design and demonstrate a cast silicone
chronic cranial imaging window system, developed to facilitate
longitudinal imaging experiments in mouse neocortex. The primary
capability requirements for this design are:

1.  Long-term stability of an optically clear light-path to cortical
    surface

2.  Intermittent physical access to imaged region at any point in study

The system was designed considering biocompatibility and optical
performance to facilitate integration in place of the removed bone flap
enabling us to achieve sustained periods of optical clarity, extending
beyond a year in some mice and allowing for both high spatial and
temporal resolution using a wide-field microscope. Additionally, the
two-part system consisting of a fixed headplate with integrated neural
access chamber and optical insert, allowed flexible access to the
underlying tissue. The utility of our design is demonstrated through
chronic optical imaging of calcium dynamics in the cortex and acute
interventions to the tissue upon detachment and replacement of the
window from the headplate. Adaptation

