### Direct Observation of Cranial Chamber

We periodically examined the imaging chamber condition in all implanted
mice using a stereoscopic microscope. Degradation of the optical
interface was found frequently in prototypes/procedures that preceded
the one mentioned here. This was observed as progressive extension of a
cloudy white inhomogeneous layer across the brain-facing surface of the
optical insert. Using the design and procedures reported in this paper,
this type of degradation rarely occurred, limited to the cases reported
above in Batch 1.

Remarkably, but not unexpectedly, tissue growth surrounding the insert
was evident in all cases, regardless of window clarity. The tissue
appeared highly vascularized, and grew from the craniotomy edge outward
along the chamber floor (figure 3-c). This growth is a natural response
to the tissue damage inflicted by any craniotomy procedure. The
difference observed here is only that the growth does not extend under
the window. Instead, it forms a non-adhesive interface with the vertical
walls of the transcranial columns and diverges upward into the aseptic
chamber, replacing the agarose filling between the optical insert and
the adhesive cement covering the skull and chamber floor. To further
investigate the structure of granulation tissue growth into the
peripheral chamber areas we detached the optical insert for unobstructed
observation in several mice. An especially gnarly example from a 6-month
duration window is pictured in figure 3-d.

###

