# Discussion

**Opening paragraph (key concepts to include)**

-   we developed a cranial window system for in vivo optical imaging in
    mice

-   specifically, we developed a system that can provide sustained
    optical quality and tissue accessibility demonstrated through stem
    cell imaging

-   the performance was achieve by using silicone elastomer to
    incorporate the critical features

-   silicone-based window can easily incorporate features to be
    functional and provides good optical interface to record cellular
    activities through wide-field imaging

-   device design, two part component window designed to block tissue
    growth

-   performance, duration, access by taking off

-   additionally, the reported system can be adapted for different
    applications demonstrated through the two versions

-   special focus on searching for the critical features to achieve the
    desired performance without compromising the optical quality

-   also easier to systematically test features and optimize towards
    fulfilling desired outcomes

The goal of this project has been to facilitate long-term studies
requiring sustained optical access and intermittent physical access to
the neocortex of intact brains in small animal research models -- such
as rats and mice. Specifically, we require a bilateral cortical windows
suitable for wide-field imaging, and access to the underlying tissue for
virus-mediated gene delivery and injection of exogenous labeled cells.
We needed this access to be available as soon as possible
post-installation, and for the optical quality to be sustained for
several months. Experiment duration is limited using current window
designs by progressive degradation of the optical light-path at the
brain-to-window interface caused by highly scattering tissue growth. The
device/system described here successfully fulfills the requirements of
this objective, giving a stable and reliable optical window with
unrestricted access for longer than one year.

**\
**

**Main finding: sustained optical quality (Fig 3)**

-   the implant effectively blocks the granulation tissue from growing
    within the image field, yielding a prolonged image duration often
    extending beyond a year

-   critical elements that facilitate the maintenance of the long-term
    optical quality

    -   system design features

        1.  mechanical barrier ^(Ref)^

        2.  adjustable height

            provides a better fitting to replace the removed bone flap

            incorporating both methods may have a synergetic effect on
            impeding the tissue growth

            observed divergence of granulation tissue ^(Ref)^

<!-- -->

-   other factors

    1.  anti-inflammatory drugs ^(Ref)^

        -   cortical steroid

        -   NSAID

    2.  air-tight seal within the chamber

        -   specific to the system design

<!-- -->

-   all four elements are equally critical to achieving the sustained
    optical quality

-   implementing the reported method may eliminate the primary reason
    for pre-terminating the image session due to tissue ingrowth

-   the system can facilitate studies that require long-term observation
    such as aging or disease progression

Refer to the methods section for the specifics of surgical procedures
for headplate installation and insert attachment. These procedures were
established after testing the variable formulations in protocol. Of
particular note, we found that administration of both a corticosteroid
and a nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drug had a substantial impact on
the viability of the optical interface. Additionally, the silicone
insert must be attached at the correct height, which must be determined
by observation of the contact between the dura and the bottom surface of
the insert. The insert must be depressed very slightly until full
contact is made across the entire window, but pressing beyond necessary
will quickly exert an undesired increase in intracranial pressure,
increasing inflammation and adverse outcomes. Lastly, sealing the
chamber is absolutely vital to the viability of the optical interface,
as well as health of the animal. This includes a permanent seal between
the chamber and skull, and a reversible seal between the chamber rim and
optical insert. One must also ensure the agarose fill displaces all air
within the chamber prior to sealing. Any remaining air pockets will be
susceptible to bacteria growth and may disrupt normal intracranial and
intermembrane pressures.

**\
**

**Main finding: tissue accessibility (Fig 4)**

-   the implant configuration consisting of two parts facilitates the
    installation procedure to be separable into distinctive stages
    carried out across days

-   similarly, the reversed sequence can be performed for repeatable
    tissue access at later time points

-   ^Ref:^ the process may be comparable to a previously reported method
    of removing the entire glass window to access the tissue

-   here, however, we employed a faster and simpler method to reversibly
    detach and successively reattach the window without risking tissue
    damage compared to the laborious process required of glass windows

-   the approach is advantageous over designating a fixated access port
    ^(Ref)^, providing full access without compromising the image field

-   the practicality of separating the installation operations of a
    complete system has yet been explored

-   the example of a comprehensive recording of the integration process
    of transplanted stem cells reported in this paper particularly well
    demonstrates the advantages of the ability

    -   it may save time and resources -- especially during the
        prototype stages -- by allowing time to ensure each implanted
        animal fully recovers from the initial procedure

    -   the delay allows normalization of the immune response or the
        heightened inflammation triggered by craniotomy before
        attempting a tissue intervention that is sensitive to these
        conditions (e.g. viral or cell injections)

    -   the most remarkable advantage, however, is the ability to image
        the first tissue intervention from day 0

The ability to separate the operations necessary for installation of a
complete system has a number of advantages, and is particularly well
supported using the reported system. It may save time and resources --
especially during the prototype stages -- by allowing time to ensure
each implanted animal fully recovers from the initial procedure.
Additionally, the delay allows normalization of the immune response or
the heightened inflammation triggered by craniotomy before attempting a
tissue intervention that is sensitive to these conditions (e.g. viral or
cell injections). The most remarkable advantage, however, is the ability
to image the first tissue intervention from day 0.

**\
**

**Main finding: adaptation (Fig 5)**

-   the system framework is adaptable to accommodate various
    applications or to enhance its performance to reflect new
    technologies and demands

-   here, we demonstrated the technical feasibility to future-proof the
    original system to adapt to continuously evolving image sensor
    technologies, allowing access to cellular interactions across
    multiple brain regions using wide-field imaging ^Ref^

-   as an inherent aspect of any design process, the adaptation of the
    original design evolved over the course of prototyping and testing
    to ensure consistent overall functional performance

-   the iterative process, however, is much feasible with the major
    progresses of manufacturing and its increased versatility, providing
    better quality, customization, lower cost and shorter production
    time ^Ref^

-   in an effort to compare various manufacturing technologies, we
    explored manufacturing the finalized product design through a number
    of companies and advanced with 3D metal printing with overall
    satisfaction at i.materialise -- we had also developed the parts
    through other rapid prototyping companies including Shapeways and
    Sculpteo

-   additionally, various features and functions of the silicone insert
    were transformed and extended to conform to new design requirements,
    some requiring distinctively different design approaches

-   we could benefit from the versatility of silicone elastomer to cover
    a spectrum of design strategies to optimize its configuration

-   in fact, we found that a seemingly subtle physical difference can
    contribute to more than one function

-   for example, the inclusion of a thin skirt extending below the
    optical insert, which was incorporated to provide protection against
    tissue growth within the image field, may also facilitate the brain
    to conform to the optical interface of the window over time
    resulting in a flat imaging plane, optimal for wide-field imaging,
    which was unachievable previously ^Ref^

-   overall, the design principles established from the initial
    development are robust and can be applied to new developments or
    refinements while preserving all qualities of the original implant

-   the CAD designs of the reported systems are accessible in open
    source and can be modified and extended accordingly to the evolving
    demands and technologies

-   We, the authors, are calling for replication, adaptation, evaluation
    (i.e. continued open / shared development).

**Further improvements**

-   primarily explored the ability to mold precise and complex features
    using silicone elastomer to discover configurations to improve image
    performance

-   encapsulate electrodes or optical guides ^Ref^

    -   Replace with combination optical + integrated electrode window

        -   Imaging as well as optogenetics stimulation

-   -   More significantly, the encapsulation of carbon, metal colloidal
    particles or quantum dots into polymer hydrogel networks will impart
    them with exclusive thermal, sonic, optical, electrical or magnetic
    properties

-   the polymer interface may provide means to penetrate through
    directly ^Ref^ for electrophysiological recording or drug infusion
    allowing recording and/or manipulation during imaging session

<!-- -->

-   thickness of the window, chromatic aberration, wide-field and
    2-photon imaging

-   lenses

<!-- -->

-   As an innovative means to

-   casting into practically any shape, size, or form

-   embed/ Integrate

-   new materials for fabrication

**Conclusion**

-   here, we took an unique approach of using silicone elastomer to
    develop a cranial window system with the specific goals to build a
    system that performs reliable to provide long-term maintenance of
    optical quality and an easy and repeatable tissue access

-   additionally, we prove the system can be easily adaptable for
    different applications

-   the develop of such device will eliminate the physical barrier we
    have to probe the complexity of the brain -- capability to
    facilitate longitudinal optical imaging experiment in mice

http://npi-med.com/news/top-5-reasons-consider-silicone-molding-medical-device-project/
- we used silicone elastomer to develop the window which provides
versatility to add functions

a.  b.  i.  ii.

c.  iii. iv.

<!-- -->

a.  i.

b.  c.  d.  e.  ii.

<!-- -->

a.  b.

<!-- -->

a.  b.

