### Optical Insert

The insert has optically flat top and bottom rectangular surfaces. The
bottom brain-facing surfaces are positioned to form a flat interface
with the intact dura through each craniotomy. The body of the insert
provides a clear light-path between top and bottom surfaces. The walls
of the body are tapered to increase the angle of unimpeded light
collection/delivery at the image field. This increases the numerical
aperture for imaging through high power lenses, and also expands options
for off-axis illumination. The tapered body is extended to the brain
surface via vertical-walled columns that traverse each craniotomy. These
columns fill the space made by removal of the bone flap during
craniotomy, and their bottom surface gently flattens the brain tissue,
positioning the cortex in a horizontal plane for convenient wide-field
imaging. Both the top and bottom surfaces are made optically clear by
integrating microscope slides in the mold when casting. The dimensions
of the insert are depicted in figure 1-b.

Inserts are fabricated in batches using an optically transparent
silicone elastomer. We vacuum cast the part in a PTFE and glass mold
with an aluminum frame inclusion that gets embedded near the upper
surface. This frame provides a site for attachment and sealing to the
rim of the chamber, as well as structural reinforcement. This helps to
establish and maintain a flat optical surface at the top of the insert,
parallel to the headplate (Fig 1b). We constructed inserts with the
bottom optical surface parallel to the top, which works well for imaging
medial cortical regions. For imaging lateral cortical regions (e.g.
visual or auditory cortex) the mold can be adapted to produce inserts
that form a flat image plane with consistent controllable angle relative
to the headplate. For any desired angle, this capability greatly
simplifies recording from a consistent image plane across sessions and
animals. The medial cortical region imaged in the demonstration provided
here was square in shape (2 mm X 2 mm), at a horizontal angle of 0
degrees, and extended from 0.83 mm to 2.83 mm symmetrically off the
midline (Fig 1a).

