## Installation and Usage

The surgical installation procedures for this multi-stage implant device
were adapted from a combination of procedures in common use for
attachment of headplates and cranial windows in mice, and similar
devices used for optical imaging in primates. The specific protocol
evolved during 3 distinct trial runs, and the final protocol is
summarized here and detailed in methods and materials below. The 18 mice
reported here received the same version of headplate and optical insert.
These mice were used for simultaneous development of other projects not
described here. Minor changes were made to the surgical procedures from
one batch to the next, each with discernable effect; see the discussion
for details.

Because this is a multi-stage implant, the procedure for installation
can be separated into multiple distinct surgeries depending on
experimental requirements. The first stage includes headplate attachment
to bare skull, centrally aligned along the AP axis with the bilateral
sites over the cortical region of interest. Once the headplate is
securely bonded, bilateral craniotomy can be made through the skull in
the base of the chamber. If the second stage of installation is
performed separately, the chamber is given a temporary silicone seal to
protect the craniotomy. We delayed the second stage of installation for
at least 2 to 3 days to allow for mouse recovery.

The second stage involves installation of the optical window, and may be
directly preceded by injection of virus, pharmaceutical compounds,
exogenous cells, or any other substance of interest. The optical window
is installed in the chamber with the assistance of a stereotaxic holder,
which enables fine height adjustment and holds the window's position
while being secured in place. The angle of the window's top surface is
held parallel with that of the headplate. The chamber is partially
filled with sterile agarose to displace all air from the chamber when
the optical insert is lowered into place. The height is adjusted to
provide full contact between the insert's bottom surface and the dura,
which also places the insert's frame in close proximity to the rim of
the chamber. Dental cement is applied to form a joint between the
headplate and the frame of the optical insert, fixing the insert in
place and aseptically sealing the chamber.

The optical insert can be detached and reattached at any time to provide
physical access to the neural tissue and/or for window replacement (i.e.
for mid-experiment injections or window damage repair respectively).
Detachment is relatively easy, accomplished by etching away the joint
between headplate and optical insert. Window replacement uses the same
procedure as the second-stage installation described above.

The replacement procedure was attempted 5 times, 4 of which were
successful in preserving or restoring optical quality to "like-new"
condition, without inflicting detectable tissue damage. Three windows
were removed and replaced following damage to the top surface of the
optical insert, inflicted by feisty cage-mates with sharp incisors (at
91, 83, and 172 days post-installation; 91 days case unsuccessful). The
remaining two cranial windows were removed at 20 days post-installation
to facilitate direct tissue access for a study requiring cellular graft
to the imaged region. We found that the removal needs to be performed
slowly, taking great care to avoid capillary rupture in the exposed
brain and surrounding granulation tissue. During each of these
procedures, we observed the pattern of granulation tissue growth into
the peripheral area of the chambers. Photos of the typical growth (as
observable with window removed) at day 172 is shown in figure 3-d, and
described in more detail below.

