### Sustained Optical Quality Extended over a Year

In the first batch of 7 mice, image quality provided by the window was
more than sufficient to record cell dynamics across both image regions
beginning 4 days after the window-installation and
fluorophore-transfection procedure and was sustained for several weeks.
At 4-6 weeks post-implant this batch of mice was evaluated and 6 of the
7 mice were discontinued and the installation procedure was adjusted for
the next batch. The decision to discontinue in each case was based on
observed deterioration in either the health of the mouse (4 out of the
6) or the optical quality of the window (2 out of the 6). See the
discussion section for the mechanisms we suspected to underlay and
procedural adjustments made to address these issues.

We continued to observe and image the 7th mouse to this day. Progression
of the optical quality and fluorophore expression characteristics in
bilateral image regions is depicted in figure 4 for this mouse. Optical
quality at the window-tissue interface has remained consistent for
longer than 18 months at the time of this manuscript's preparation. The
structure of granulation tissue surrounding the window at 12 months is
described in detail below and depicted for this mouse in figure 3-d.

Similar to the first batch, the second batch of 6 mice was observed and
recorded for some time (3 -- 5 months) before discontinuing all except
one most exceptional mouse. This mouse received a window replacement at
day 83, and was imaged periodically for 11 months before terminating due
to a health concern unrelated to the surgical procedure.

The imaging period for the last batch was extended beyond what was
required for the stem-cell study to more thoroughly test the longer-term
limits of sustained optical quality. Of 5 mice, 1 mouse did not recover
as promptly as expected following the craniotomy procedure and was
immediately discontinued. We observed consistent performance on
long-term optical sustainability, extending over 12 months on average
among the 8 windows. Half of these windows remain to be imaged to this
day, and the rest were discontinued either followed by capillary rupture
within image field or the deterioration of the health of the aged
animals.

Figure 3-a presents transfected cells surrounding the initial virus
injection site that can be identified throughout the field-of view of
1.3 mm x 1.3 mm. In this data set, estimates of cell number ranged from
XX to XX with a relatively small variation among few randomly selected
days between XX and XX.

