## Optical insert attachment

The optical insert attachment can be performed immediately following the
craniotomy or deferred to the day of injection as described below (Fig.
2 Step 4). First, we filled the headplate chamber with sterile 0.5%
agarose solution, immersing the exposed brain. Enough agarose was added
so as to overflow the walls of the chamber as the window is inserted,
ensuring no air gaps remain in the space between the walls of the
chamber and the window, below the joint to be sealed. Next, the window
was placed in the chamber, directly over the craniotomy, in gentle
contact with the exposed tissue. We used a ttaxic apparatus to adjust
the window height and secure its position during attachment. This was
aided by an attachment -- similar to that used for headplate
installation -- which fixed the angle of the window's top surface
parallel with that of the headplate. The height adjustment required
depressing the window until full contact was observed between the inner
window surface and the dura. The window was tacked in place by applying
an accelerated light-cured composite (Pentron Clinic, Flow-It ALC) in at
least three points, bonding the window frame to the anterior and
posterior walls of the headplate. At this point the guide was removed
and the joint was prepped for sealing. Excess agarose (polymerized
overflow from the window insertion step) was aspirated away to expose
and clean the headplate surface surrounding the window. The chamber was
sealed by filling the joint between headplate and optical insert with
dental cement (Stoelting, 51458) using a P200 pipette. The window
surface was protected by applying a double layer adhesive strip made of
gaffers tape over a transparent adhesive film dressing (3M: Tegaderm,
70200749201).

