## Headplate installation and craniotomy

We shaved the top of the mouse's head and sterilized the skin using 70%
alcohol and 7.5% Betadine. We made a 1cm midline sagittal incision
through the scalp using surgical scissors, and retracted laterally using
a self-retaining retractor (WPI, 501968). To prepare the cranial
surface, we applied 3% hydrogen peroxide to oxidize and facilitate
removal of periosteal tissue with cotton tip swabs. The surface was then
marked up before headplate installation followed by craniotomy. We
targeted laterally symmetric craniotomies with edge length 2.2 mm
centered at coordinates ±1.83 mm lateral to sagittal suture and 1.00 mm
anterior to bregma. First, we used a surgical skin marker (FST,
18000-30) to roughly indicate the site of each craniotomy and enhance
contrast of the edges to be etched. We etched the corners and edges
using a dental drill with a FG 1/4 round carbide burr (Fig. 2 Step
1(L)). This way of marking the edges facilitates headplate placement and
also aids recovery of the intended craniotomy position despite being
covered by semi-transparent adhesive cement in the following steps.

We used a custom stereotaxic attachment (Supplementary) to position the
headplate symmetrically aligned with the marked sites, and to hold it
horizontal while bonding to skull. The headplate was anchored directly
to the skull using either opaque or semi-clear quick adhesive cement
(Parkell, S380). Subsequently, we began each craniotomy by drilling
along the marked edges (Fig. 2 Step 2(L)). We frequently stopped to
flush debris from the site using sterile saline and an aspirator. Once
separated from the surrounding skull, the bone flap was carefully
removed using a pair of sharp forceps (FST, 91150-20) and a 45º micro
probe (FST, 10066-15) while keeping the dura intact (Fig. 2 Step 1(R)).
At this point, we either attached the optical window or sealed the area
with a layer of non-toxic silicone adhesive (WPI, KWIK-SIL).

