# Data Management

Essential to the long-term success of any operation is an effective strategy for the management I've all data coming in and out of the system. Especially important is the insured facility for continued access and translation of data as systems evolve or as data is passed to other infrastructure. Strategies that meet the need of data generators and users often if it's somewhere on a spectrum of strictly defined data structures that minimize errors but are strict and difficult to evolve, versus those that require verbose documentation which hinders performance but are adaptable.

The new structures that scientists typically use are on the flexible and self-describing Spectrum and, these include two files for large image formats, fits files, cifs, Matlab structure definitions, which are an implementation of hdf5 file structures. And similarly standard JavaScript object notation in parentheses Json structures. At the other end exist Raw structures compression codex and other processing procedures, and cannot be accessed reliably without thorough knowledge of the source code for napi, or extensive packing and guessing. In the middle exist and number of serialization formats such as Google protobuf format, Thrift, Avril, Captain T, ND growing number of other formats that try to offer flexibility in evolution over time as well as variable levels of self-description and performance. These formats are often to find in simple files and are used by code generators 2 produce computational e efficient code for serialization and D serialization without losing cross platform compatibility or risking rapid deprecation as the needs for the format evolve with the needs of the users. Types can be added to provide new functionality without damaging backwards compatibility. Additionally this model is off in accompanied by a translator herbal component to JavaScript object notation which makes the format ultimately universal in the case of a desperate need for compatibility when performance no longer matters

Tags:
  data, directory, format, programming, serialization