# Research Experience

**December 2003 – September 2005: Intern at Jackson Laboratory, Bar Harbor, ME**

The kind folks at the Jackson Lab introduced me to biomedical research. The lab has an internship program for students at the *Mount Desert Island High School*, which I applied for in my junior year. I began work in David Harrison's hematology and gerontology lab in winter 2004, supervised by Mike Astle. Three or more times each week I drove to the lab and used PCR to genotype a perpetual flood of DNA from a freezer full of tail-tips; I didn't know for what purpose until several months after I started. The goal was to map *Quantitative Trait Loci* that regulate expression of the B220 isoform of CD45 (a.k.a. leukocyte common antigen or protein tyrosine phosphatase B-cell surface receptor). As one might expect there was an extremely low likelihood that this project would generate interesting results, at least not to a 17-year old. In fact, it generated no results; I was told the matching phenotype data that were necessary to run the correlation analysis was lost. Nevertheless, I enjoyed learning the *genomics* techniques used in the lab, and finished the year by giving a presentation on PCR-genotyping that turned into a teaching tool for the program in subsequent years. I happily agreed to work in the same lab over the following year.

Continuing in the Harrison lab I was adopted by Kevin Flurkey, another post-doc whose enthusiasm and optimism were contagious. He was happy to have a fresh mind and extra pair of hands around to take on one of the several projects he had started. We discussed each study but he gave me the freedom and resources to work any project how I wanted to. I spent the year testing the effect of growth-hormone deficiency (GHD) on atherosclerosis. I bred a new double-knockout strain (*lit* & *Apoe*) then found someone in a collaborating lab to teach me the a relatively *intense procedure* for harvesting the heart for *histology*, which I used to quantify the extent of arterial damage in the double-knockout mouse. The harvesting procedure required *cervical dislocation* (without anesthesia) followed by a puncture of the left ventricle and *rapid* *cardiac excision.* This was done so the heart was still be beating when placed in a dish of saline, which allowed it to flush itself out. I finished the project with a significant null result (no effect of GH-deficiency on atherosclerosis), which was somewhat unexpected, but likely dependent on the *how* atherosclerosis is measured. Kevin suggested we publish the work, as the effect was *significant* after all, but I wasn’t convinced either way and didn’t feel right claiming otherwise. I returned the next summer to churn out a similar project with *hypothyroid* mice, which we abandonded due to some problem with the colony.

Columbia's Biomedical Engineering program allowed little flexibility of course selection. Nonetheless I enjoyed coursework thoroughly, and found later that they prepared me exceptionally well for work in the real world. I was especially intrigued by courses in electronics and computer programming, neither of which I had exposure to before college. I chose to follow the biomedical imaging track in the BME program (other options were biomechanical or cell/tissue engineering). My departmental advisor, Elizabeth Hillman, whose research is in functional optical imaging introduced me to her collaborator up at the CU Medical Center, Aniruddha Das. When I joined Aniruddha's lab it was very small, but beginning to grow. I worked closely with Yevgeniy (Gene) Sirotin, a PhD student getting ready to defend his thesis. There was an abundance of things to work on. Every bit of the camera-based imaging system that we used was designed and constructed by the two or three people working in the lab. We wanted to make the system adaptable for use with any camera, as the lab was planning to purchase a new one.

Most of my time is spent problem-solving various issues: In my first few weeks I built a device to measure the monkeys respiratory pattern in the hopes that this signal could be used to remove unexplained oscillations from the hemodynamic signals measured in the cortex. The device used a thermistor placed near the monkey's nostril. Later I designed an experiment to control the monkey's respirations and used this data to design an algorithm that would remove systemic noise from the signals using a linear ARMA model. However, the respiratory signal could account for only 40-50% of the noise that wasn't correlated with neuronal firing. Another problem we encountered was overwhelming noise in the recording electrode produced by EMF interference from the LED array nearby. To enable simultaneous electrophysiology and dual-wavelength imaging, I suggested using fiber optic cable to pipe light into a similar array. I ordered cable and played around with different coupling schemes and eventually formed a preliminary design. I learned the basics of using a vertical mill by working with Gene on the coupling prototype. The plan worked fabulously and the device is instrumental to our current work.

I periodically took the subway to NYU with Aniruddha and Gene to join an NYU journal club that was discussing a slew of papers published by Nikos Logothetis, a German neurobiologist who also studies neurovascular coupling. From the first meeting I took a new awareness of how little we know about how the brain actually works. These intense discussions helped to spark some ideas in my head, and I spent a lot of time trying to determine the feasibility of implementing new ways of measuring neuronal and hemodynamic activity in the brain. One idea I looked into was to measure temperature changes on the brain surface using the far-infrared sensors used in thermal imaging cameras. This ability would ideally allow us to separate vascular dilations on the cortical surface from dilations in the capillary beds in the layers below which are more tightly coupled to local neural activity. Unfortunately the technology to accomplish this is still quite expensive.

My first months of experience in the Das lab prepared me well for the BME Senior Design project. My team was building a portable breast-scanner for monitoring cancer that could be given to patients to plug into their computer and track changes in thermal and optical-absorption patterns The project was ambitious; but, I figured having a relevant project that we cared about was more important than having a project we could easily finish. Our proposal drew a lot of skepticism, thus our research had to be thorough and legitimate, and it was. A lot of support came from Britton Chance’s lab at Penn, where a similar device was being constructed. We built a number of handheld prototypes along with a slew of other phantoms and devices used for testing. The most important thing for me was to gain experience with a wide range of scientific and technological practices, which spelt overkill for everything we tried: I encoded our optical signal and wrote quadrature demodulation scripts in MATLAB and C, implementing a lock-in amplifier; I built a MATLAB GUI that read temperature from a thermopile via a microcontroller, achieving precision that was an order of magnitude greater than required. To build the physical prototype I took advantage of everything that the biomedical engineering lab had available: I used a laser cutter for the second prototype and a 3D printer for the third; I also machined Teflon and aluminum components for the front end, then mated them precisely with a custom printed circuit board and a thermoformed acrylic ergonomic grip that enclosed another circuit board. As you might imagine, the time I spent on work for Senior Design was at least 5-fold the time I spent on all my spring-semester classes combined.

After returning to full time work in Aniruddha's lab I spent about half my time fixing old systems and helping another graduate student build a new imaging system for rats rather than monkeys. I built several computers for image acquisition. I began exploring ways to use a flexible fiber-optic image-guide coupled directly to the camera to reduce motion artifacts. After realizing how much control this could give us over how light is delivered and received from the cortical surface I began looking into imaging techniques used to resolve depth. The most promising so far seems to be Laminar Optical Tomography (LOT), or some novel variation. I spent a long time researching photo-acoustic tomography and even built a computer model that demonstrated how it would work with our imaging setup, but I have put the idea aside for now to see what we can do with fluorescence imaging.

My job was to refine the current imaging system as well as to develop new components that expanded our ability to measure physiologic activity in the monkeys. I built a dual-wavelength fiber-optic illumination system, which used fiber coupled LEDs, and is *highly relevant to the work proposed here* and more recently I built a computer to replace our current imaging system. I'm currently working on an endoscopic imaging system that could employ LOT, OCT, two-photon, photo-acoustic, or some other mesoscopic optical imaging technique to acquire depth-resolved (3D) images.

I rotated in Dr. Han’s lab after my first year of medical school. I built a faraday cage for tethered optogenetic stimulation of a mouse. I also wrote the software for an automated BehaviorBox for mice. This software controlled the LCD screen, LEDs, and speakers, etc, and sensed mousepokes from an infrared touchscreen. The box has been scaled successfully by undergraduates and is still using the same software to generate new experiments.
